Many people go through life without experiencing a loss of someone close to them early on in their life. A father figure in ones development is essential to become unique. Jamal Wallace in «Finding Forester» did not have a father figure when he grew up; this reflected on him negatively. Jamal required William Forester as a father figure to advance in his writing. With Forester being a steady pillar for Jamal to stand on, his writing dreams could now become a reality. Jamal’s background became more than history, it became the backbone of his writing.
Jamal’s pessimistic surroundings neglected his ability to create meaningful passages. When he was a young child his mental image of the world was changed when his father abandoned his family. He tried to fit in through means of being a typical child. Jamal’s participation was just enough to not stick out amongst his fellow pears. He faced many challenges at home. Their family was relatively poor and he lived in a hectic environment. To cope with his unstable home he played basketball all the while treating his writing talents as just a hobby. Jamal’s pessimistic surroundings were worsened by not having a father.
William Forester became more than a friend to Jamal; he became the father figure he needed. Forester used his rudeness and concise actions to teach Jamal lessons not only about writing but life. Early on he showed Jamal that the world was mostly racist and that he must overcome their expectations. The friendship between Jamal and Forester was tested when Jamal was prosecuted for copywriting Foresters work. Through their daily meetings Jamal learned trust and the importance of family. He reflected this in a passage he wrote for Forrester. Jamal’s atypical background and new found father figure gave him a creative edge in his writing.
Although my life can never compare to Jamal’s I have had some experiences that he has not. I have had the privilege of experiencing excellence at its finest when visiting the Naval Academy. I can use the knowledge I have gained from going camping to add adventure to my writing. My biggest trait that I possess is, by far, my ability to create sarcasm. I can use this trait to write pieces with distinctive voice and harsh reality. All traits combined make for a creative comical adventure. It might be impossible to create such works of art as Jamal but with perseverance anything can happen.
Writing is an expression of ones personal thoughts and experiences. Acquiring a father figure has improved his writing the way others could not. The movie shows that nothing is more important than family. As a father figure William Forester gave Jamal’s life a more meaningful purpose. Jamal required William Forester as a father figure to advance in his writing. Jamal’s life greatly impacted his writing. His story shows how a childhood can affect a person’s accomplishments in the future.